Speaking in front of a group and audience can definitely be daunting.
The best weapon you have to counter your concerns and doubt is, yes, confidence.
Now there are several definitions and I like this one the best.
A feeling of self-assurance arising from one's
appreciation of one's own abilities or qualities.
Displaying confidence while delivering your presentation is extremely powerful.
Your audience will sense the lack of confidence in yourself and
therefore the lack of confidence in your material.
Yes, it may not make sense, but that's what happens,
even if you have the best material on the planet and it
is the greatest business idea ever, it usually doesn't matter.
The reverse is true.
If you are confident,
your audience will transfer that confidence into the material
and content you are presenting as well.
Now, do not be egotistical or a smarty or arrogant or anything like that, ever!
What I'm suggesting is that for you to be
self-confident in a professional manner.
Believe in yourself and trust yourself.
Here's a tip.
People like to respect and trust others who are self-confident.
Alright, now that you're feeling some confidence,
let's see how I would like you to deliver your presentation.
As we've mentioned, you are not just talking,
you are delivering a message and this slide is about how
I want you to deliver your messages.
Know your audience.
Who are you about to talk to?
Maybe who you thought would be there is not and maybe others have shown up.
Always be prepared to adapt.
As long as the core message is in your presentation,
you can use your words to evolve or adapt or to
re-engineer your message if need be.
Always maintain good eye contact.
Don't stare, of course,
but give people the sense that you are talking directly to them.
This makes them feel included and if they feel included,
they are more likely to listen and interact.
Use your eyes to scan the room.
This technique will help keep eye contact with as many people as you can,
and always engage your audience.
Some useful ways to do that are sharing a funny yet tasteful story,
or pose a question to see how much they know about the
subject you're about to discuss.
So, eye contact helps a lot to engage, as we mentioned,
and maybe moving from one side to the other of the room if possible,
creating some very simple motion adds to your presence.
Also, noticing when someone has a question,
either overtly like they're raising their hand,
or subtlety like maybe with their body language.
So speaking of body language, use it to gauge how people are listening.
This might cue you to repeat an important point or topic.
Speak clearly and with confidence.
As we discussed,
confidence is an enormous boost to ensuring the outcome of your message.
Speak in a loud and clear voice to get your
presentation through to the audience, even the ones sitting maybe farther away.
Manage stress.
This is your stress.
It's common to be a little stressed before a presentation; I know I have been.
You may feel slightly uncomfortable to all the way
to being maybe highly stressed.
Never let them see or feel this if possible.
It's a presentation killer.
I manage my stress by feeling confident in what I know,
in what I will be presenting,
and in what I hope will be the outcome of the presentation.
This reinforces my confidence by pushing aside my stress.
Another technique is to try picturing yourself impressing the audience.
Trust me, you will.
Also it's important to relax before the presentation and think
about nothing but how to make the most out of it.
Build confidence in yourself.
And vary the strength, tone or pitch of your voice,
especially when you've done a presentation before; it can be easy to fall
into a drone-on with minimal changes to your inflections.
Always speak as if you're speaking to a friend,
not as if you are reading off some bullet points.
Practice run-throughs as we discussed and this will help with this problem.
Look presentable.
Yes, what you wear matters.
Appearance says a lot about someone's personality and confidence.
Now, what should you wear?
Make sure you are entirely comfortable, of course,
and feel confident in what you're wearing because all eyes will be on you.
You may be wearing normal attire for your company.
Maybe you are presenting to a new client.
Then dress equal or maybe slightly better than your clients' attire.
Don't know what they're wearing?
Call and find out.
Okay, here's a tip.
Remember, you're the focus when you are presenting.
The slides on the screen are only part of the
presentation and not the main part really.
Give some thought to your own presentation manner and style.
You know, how do you hold yourself?
How do you move around the room?
You are the focus when you are presenting no matter
how interesting your slides are.
Alright, now let's check out some delivery guidelines I'd like you to consider.
Here are some guideline I'd like you to follow then
you're delivering your presentation.
Always show what you're talking about and be sure that the slide
you are on reflects what you are talking about.
In fact, if possible, the actual line item you're talking about.
Do not read the slide.
When you read the slide, you are not looking at the audience,
they see your back, and you've lost eye contact,
and besides, anyone can read a slide.
You want to embellish and provide the passion and animation which
adds color and interest to what you're saying.
Ask for feedback.
At times, stop and ask, is that point clear?
Are there any questions on the final budget numbers, and things like that.
Also, look out for body language that suggests questions or confusion.
When you see it, stop, pause, and ask for feedback.
Q&A.
What time is the right time?
Prepare for your Q&A at the end of the presentation,
but be prepared to handle interruptions,
questions, and objections during the presentation.
You might answer or address something quickly to help continue the tempo,
but beware of attendees that are interested in
slowing or derailing the presentation.
In large crowds, they will be there,
so answer questions at the end of the presentation in those cases.
Make sure you listen to the questions carefully,
ask for clarifications if needed,
and repeat the question to the rest of the audience to give you more time
to think about the answer; it's a cool little trick.
If you don't know the answer for a question,
be honest and say that you'll look into it since you don't know the answer.
Ask questions.
Questions arouse interest, peak curiosity,
and engage audiences, so ask a lot of them,
given you have the time, of course.
Build tension by posing a question and let your audience think for a moment
before moving to the next question or the next slide.
Quiz their knowledge and then show them how little they know,
in a good way, of course.
If appropriate, engage in a little question and answer with your audience,
with you asking the questions instead of the audience.
Do not hand out the presentation until the end.
What happens is, if you hand out the presentation prior to the presentation,
typically attendees will leaf through it,
be distracted, or look on the last slide to see the budget numbers.
If at all possible,
do not even show them the stack of handouts; have them hidden on a
chair or have an associate bring them in later.
You want them to be focused on you and your message,
not on the piece of paper that it's on.
Learn from experience.
Ask your team or professional mentors for their feedback to be
able to identify your strengths and weaknesses and help you
improve for your next presentation.
Learn from other presenters and go listen to other
people's presentations and take the time to benefit from
their skills or their techniques. Okay, now let's check out what I don't want you to do when you're presenting.